I prepared this data.json file which you can find attached to this video and you may download it and if
you open it like this, it's pretty hard to read.
It's in the json format obviously
and here what we will have some sales and then it's an array of sales or a list of sales with structured
data in that array
and that is also what makes up json, this structured data approach with nested objects.
We will see in a second why that is tricky or special when importing it.
So that's the data, you can find it attached as mentioned,
now I'm in a brand new Power BI project and of course I want to get some data
and now if we click on more, we obviously see a lot of import data sources and you saw that before.
Now as mentioned, we'll have a look at JSON, MySQL and the web here in this module and I want to
start with JSON
since we just saw that we have some data in the JSON format.
So let's double-click JSON and pick that data.json file we find attached
and now it looks something like that and that of course is data which is pretty hard to work with,
it's just sales and a list. We can click on list actually
and now we have a list of records,
still not that useful.
Now you can click on one of these records and you see a single item in this sales array.
So here that's for India, we have a volume of 120 and then we have even more nested data, the transactions which
is again a list of records,
if we open that, now we get the individual transactions.
Now it would be nice to have one single table with all the data
than having, well these kind of nested data source here which makes it really hard to work with and is not
really in the format we want to work with.
So let's not drill down into that and let's instead simply convert this into a table on the top left
here.
If you click this, now you see it converts this in a table
so far that it created a column name with our sales and a value which is still a list. Here
however we get a new button and that actually is the same button
you can find on transform and then it's here, expand.
If you select this column, you can click expand or again, this button and you are asked to expand
this in new rows or extract the values.
Let's start with the values
and if we click OK here, take a few seconds, you see that didn't really work because extracted values
would only work if we had a list of values in there we could use.
We don't however,
we have more structured data in there,
so instead what I will do is I will choose the first option and expand to new rows and
now we have a couple of sales records where we have the individual records.
So the list has been mapped into our main table which is what we want because we want to work with one
single table in the end,
right? Now however that is still not that useful,
so why don't we expand this one more time
and keep in mind, you can always do this here on the right structured column expand
and now you were actually asked which fields do you want to expand
because if I close this and we drill into one of these records, you see these are the three fields we
have, region,
volume and transactions. Now with that, we can remove that and
let's pick OK now.
Now we're extracting the values because we don't need to add new rows, we don't have structured data
on that level,
we had three value fields instead
and here we have the three values, we have our regions,
our volumes for the regions and then again, a list. Now inside the list, we again have structured data
though.
So if you choose extract values here again,
well guess what? We get an error again because if we have a look at a list item, it's a record,
it's a structured data,
we can't see any values there.
So instead, let's remove that step here and I click expand again, expand to new rows,
now that looks better. Now we have sales for the different regions with the volumes and we have multiple rows
for each region because we have the different individual records, the transactions.
So now if we click this one more time and we extract the values. date and volume,
now we have the finished table with our sales for regions, with the total volume
and then individual transactions.
Now of course it depends on what you want to analyze,
maybe you were only interested in the total volume, then you could have stopped way earlier. If you are
interested in individual transactions,
this is how you drill down and create a table of the structured data in a unstructured data here, in a
table, in a two dimensional table
by expanding the different datasets you had in your data source.
So that's now the finished table I want to work with,
the last thing I want to do is I want to assign some types here.
So what I do want to do is I want to right-click on my volumes, change the type to a whole number and
do the same for the value volume
here, whole number and that here should clearly be a date,
so let's pick date. With all that, we can click close and apply to apply the data
and we're now ready to analyze that.
So for example, we could create a column chart here which is a bit bigger, then pull our transaction values
in there,
so let me resize that
and now let's take the volume of our transactions into the value field, maybe date as an axis and finally,
the value region as legend.
Finally let me increase this a bit more, so that we not only see it on a per year basis, we could drill down
do quarterly or monthly data and now we see for the different regions, our different values. That
would be the finished analysis,
the chart is not that interesting here,
the key part was to understand how you can import JSON and I hope this became a bit clearer. How you
drill down and how you expand these columns which hold the structured data or the lists of values
and how to then get this into a two dimensional table.